The President:
Thank you very much. Wow.
We have some big
ones today, huh?
This is a room
-- loaded up. Wow.
Paula Reid.
Jonathan Karl.
Phil Rucker.
Hi, Phil.
How are you?
Kaitlan.
We've got the all-stars.
A lot of all-stars today.
You too.
The Press: Alex
Alper, Reuters.
The President: You too.
That's good.
Well, that's fine.
Thank you very much.
In the past four months,
we've added 10.6 million
jobs, including 643
[thousand] manufacturing
jobs and 658,000
construction jobs.
It's far beyond
expectations.
We've experienced the
smallest contraction of
any Western nation,
meaning we've been
affected less than any
other nation -- Western
nation -- and probably,
almost, I think you can
put us in -- I just saw
some numbers -- I think
you can put us into
just about any category
anywhere.
And the fastest
recovery by far.
And that's anywhere.
Nobody has recovered
like we're recovering.
If we follow Joe Biden's
strategy, we'd shut down
the entire country after
just having set records on
growth.
And we also did have
tremendous retail growth,
as you probably noticed.
We're witnessing the
fastest labor market
recovery from an economic
crisis in our history.
By contrast, the
Obama-Biden administration
had the slowest, weakest,
and worst recovery in
American history,
as you know.
We continue to make
progress in our fight
against the China virus.
New weekly cases have
declined by 44 percent
since July.
Deaths declined by 20
percent compared to just
last week.
It's going down
very rapidly.
Really rapidly.
This is in contrast to
nations in the European
Union, which have recently
experienced a sharp
increase in cases.
They're having a very
big spike over there.
We're hopefully beyond our
spike, and we'll see, but
we're doing very well
all over our country.
In the past five weeks,
per capita cases doubled
in France; surged to over
300 percent in Spain,
which I've been hearing
about and speaking to some
of the leaders of Spain,
and they are having a hard
time; and increased more
than 400 percent in Italy
again.
And as you remember, I
stopped -- I put a ban on
people coming in from
Europe after the ban I
imposed on China, Wuhan
-- but because of Wuhan
primarily, because that
area was very infected.
We -- we also put
a ban on Europe.
So Spain is being heavily
impacted, France, and 400
percent in Italy.
Yesterday, European
nations experienced 50
percent more deaths
than the United States.
And you don't
hear these things.
You don't hear
these statistics.
But the United States
has done really well.
Very proud of everybody
that worked on this.
And I really do believe
we're rounding the corner.
And the vaccines are right
there, but even -- not
even discussing vaccines
and not discussing
therapeutics, we're
rounding the corner.
We already have
therapeutics out there, by
the way, which are having
obviously a very big
impact because you look at
that, you look at the --
the way people are
recovering, it's so much
better than in the past
before we knew about the
disease and had anything
to fight the disease.
On schools, as part of our
science-based approach, we
want schools to safely
open and stay open.
Children are at extremely
low risk of complications
from the virus.
Less than 0.2 percent
-- 0.2 percent of the
coronavirus deaths have
occurred in those under
the age of 25, and most
had underlying conditions
where there was a problem.
There is no substitute
for in-person learning.
According to a recent
study, student progress in
math decreased by half and
-- using online education
compared to in-person
or campus education.
So, online, we think of so
many things online and how
great it is; there's
nothing like being in the
classroom.
That's what we've learned
from this whole ordeal.
According to the
CDC, school closures
disproportionately harm
low-income and minority
children, as well as
those with disabilities.
And I think you see some
slides behind me that are
very new, very current.
It's also crucial for
colleges and universities
to stay open.
And we hope that they do
indeed stay open, and we
want to see Big
10 football.
We hope it's coming back.
We have a lot of the
colleges that we're
talking about, they
want to come back.
We hope that
Michigan agrees.
We hope that -- and I know
the governor will have a
lot to say about it.
We hope she approves it.
But we have a couple that
-- Maryland is another
one.
We hope the governor puts
a little pressure on so
that we can have it, but I
have a feeling they may do
it.
They may do it without
having everybody, but I
think they're going to
have maybe Michigan, maybe
Maryland.
We have a couple of
states that might not
participate.
But people are working
very, very hard to get Big
10 football back,
and I'm pushing it.
And it'll be a great thing
for our country and the
players.
And the coaches want
to do it really badly.
The par- -- the players
are missing -- they only
have so many
years of this.
And the players are
missing a big opportunity,
including the chance, in
some of the cases -- they
have some of the best
players, college players
in our country, and they
want to get into the NFL
and they want to make
money in the NFL, and
they're not going to be
able to do that too easy
if you don't get
to see them play.
It's much safer for
students to live on
campus.
And low-risk young people
would, rather than the
alternative.
It's -- the alternative is
no good -- than going home
spreading the virus to
high-risk Americans.
It's -- they want
to be on campus.
They want to go
back to school.
And the parents want them
back in school, maybe more
so than they want to
be back in school.
And they want them back
safely and they want to go
back safely, but
they have to go back.
Based on the recent
data from more than 20
colleges, not a single
student who tested
positive for the virus
has been hospitalized.
So that's a lot of people.
That's a lot of students.
Not one has been
hospitalized.
As we continue to follow
the science-based approach
to protect our people and
vanquish the virus, Joe
Biden continues to use the
pandemic for political
gain.
Every time I see him, he
starts talking about the
pandemic.
He's reading it
off a teleprompter.
I'm not allowed to
use a teleprompter.
Why is that, Phil?
They ask questions and
he starts reading the
teleprompter.
He says, "Move the
teleprompter a little bit
closer, please." I don't
know, I think if I did
that, I'd be
in big trouble.
I think that would be --
that would be the story of
the year.
When I took early action
in January to ban the
travel and all travel
to and from China, the
Democrats and Biden, in
particular, called it
"xenophobic." You
remember that?
Joe was willing to
sacrifice American lives
to placate the
radical-left open-border
extremists.
And we saved tens of
thousands of lives,
probably hundreds of
thousands of lives.
And we saved millions of
lives by doing the closing
and now the opening
the way we did it.
Joe's decision to publicly
attack the China ban
proved he lacks the
character or intelligence
or instinct to
do what is right.
Now Biden has launched a
public campaign against
the vaccine, which is so
bad, because we have some
vaccines coming
that are incredible.
Scott was telling me about
some of the things that
are happening and it's
very exciting, Scott.
Thank you for being here.
But you don't want to have
anything having to do
with, for political
purposes, being an
anti-vaxxer.
You don't want to be
talking about the vaccines
in a negative way,
especially when you see
the statistics that
we're starting to see.
They're incredible,
actually.
Biden is perfectly happy
to endanger the lives of
other people by doing
something that he thinks
is going to help him
politically because his
polls are
getting very bad.
They're getting
very shaky.
This was an election that
was going to be very easy,
very quick, and then the
China virus came in and I
had to go back to
work politically,
unfortunately.
I had to devote more time
politically than to the
other things we do, which
are very important for our
country.
But I had to go
back to work.
And it looks like -- it
looks like we're going up
very rapidly.
More rapidly than the
media wants to admit.
And Biden has
had to go out.
He's gotten out of his
basement and he's working.
Let's see what happens.
But we got to talk about
how great these vaccines
are if, in fact,
they're great.
And I think you're going
to see numbers that are
going to be very,
very impressive.
The approach to the virus
is a very unscientific
blanket lockdown by the
Democrats -- that's what
they're talking about --
which takes all of these
incredible statistics,
records, and it throws
them out the window.
Now, they did say it
would be based on the
recommendation of the
experts, but, you know,
whether expert or not,
we're not doing any more
shutdowns.
We did the shutdown and
now we're doing the
opening, and there won't
be any more shutdowns.
There could be a little
section, a small section,
where you have a breakout,
but we're not talking
about shutdowns like
they were talking about,
depending on experts.
We're not going
to be doing that.
The swine flu was a
disaster, you remember,
when -- not nearly as
deadly, not -- not the
same world.
But when Joe Biden was
Vice President, his failed
approach to the swine
flu was disastrous.
He called it -- he called
it N1H1; it's actually
H1N1.
You know, you remember the
"H" comes before the "N,"
so it's sort of easy
to remember, right?
But Joe -- Joe always
calls it the opposite way,
but it was -- call it
the "swine flu." It was
disastrous.
And his own chief of staff
said that when Biden
helped manage the swine
flu in 2009, they, quote,
"did everything possible
wrong." And 60 million
Americans got H1N1 in
that period of time.
This is a quote from
his chief of staff.
And it's just "purely a
fortuity that this isn't
one of the great mass
casualty events.
It had nothing to do with
us doing anything right
because we did everything
wrong." It was a disaster.
It was a disaster.
And now he's telling us
how to manage -- he can't
manage himself.
Two hundred and seventy
thousand Americans were
hospitalized
during this attack.
The outbreak was so
rampant that the Obama
administration told
states to stop testing.
"We don't want any tests,"
because they don't want to
show all of the things
that tests show.
By the way, we're setting
a record on testing.
Our testing is at a level
that nobody has ever seen
before.
We're substantially
greater than the second
country -- which is India,
by the way, which has 1.5
billion people.
But we're 50 million tests
ahead -- 50 million ahead.
And they ordered the CDC
to stop counting tests and
stop counting cases, and
then left us a depleted
stockpile, which is
what I inherited.
I inherited a depleted
-- a very badly depleted
stockpile.
In other words, Biden's
record demonstrates that
if he had been in charge
of this very serious,
highly, highly contagious
epidemic or pandemic --
the China virus --
countless more Americans
would have died.
And if we didn't do what
we did -- and I say it all
the time now because the
media likes to belittle.
What we've done has
been incredible.
Now you can look at Europe
and you can look at other
places, and you can
start comparing.
Biden is weak on China.
Yesterday, it was revealed
that a fund -- partly
owned by Joe Biden's son,
Hunter -- facilitated the
sale of a Michigan auto
parts producer to a
leading Chinese military
defense contractor.
You don't want to write
about that, do you?
Biden spent his entire
career selling Michigan
jobs to China.
Now the Biden family is
selling out our country
directly to the Chinese
military, which has to do
with this company that
Hunter -- here we go with
Hunter again.
He didn't have a job; now,
all of a sudden, he's
selling companies from
Michigan to China.
China's military got
American manufacturing
jobs, and the Biden family
got paid a lot of money.
And I said, "If Joe Biden
ever got elected, China
will own America." They
will -- they will own
America.
Finally, I can announce
with great pride that
Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo will be departing
this evening on a historic
trip to Doha -- that's
Qatar -- for the beginning
of intra-Afghan peace
negotiations.
We've been negotiating
with them for quite some
time, getting along with
them, moved a lot of
soldiers out.
I got a report this
morning that there's been
nobody killed in
Afghanistan since early
February.
It's a long time.
There's been no
deaths, no problems.
And a lot of progress is
being made in Afghanistan.
But we'll be down to 4,000
soldiers in a very short
period of time.
Likewise, Iraq: We'll
be down to about 2,000
soldiers in a very
short period of time.
And, in Syria, for the
most part, we're out,
other than we
kept the oil.
And so we have soldiers
guarding the oil -- not
too many; I think a small
number -- but they're
guarding the oil.
And we're helping the
Kurds, and we're making
their lives much more
pleasant because of the
fact that we have the oil.
So we're pretty
much out of Syria.
We're pretty
much out of Iraq.
And we're down to the
smallest force that we've
had in -- we'll be very
shortly down to that
number in Afghanistan.
The negotiations are
a result of a bold
diplomatic effort on part
of my administration in
recent months and years.
The United States will
play an important role in
bringing the parties
together to end the
decades-long war; it's
been going on for almost
20 years, long before I
got involved, I can tell
you that.
And had they not been
wasting our time with all
of the phony witch hunts
and all of the things, we
probably could have
done this even faster.
But a lot of time had to
be spent wasted like that.
But the parties are
together right now, and
we're negotiating, and
we're really making
tremendous progress.
Next week at the White
House, we'll be having a
signing between UAE and
Israel, and we could have
another country
added into that.
And I will tell you,
countries are lining up
that want to go into it.
As you know, UA- -- UAE
is headed by a very, very
highly respected gentleman
and respected by
everybody.
And he's a warrior too.
He's a great warrior.
And Mohammed is very
excited about this.
And you'll be hearing
other countries coming in
over a relatively
short period of time.
And you could have peace
in the Middle East.
I think what, ultimately,
will happen is you're
going to have quite a
few countries come in.
The big ones are
going to be coming in.
I spoke to the King of
Saudi Arabia, so we're
talking.
We're starting a -- we
just started the dialogue.
And you'll have
them come in.
And I think two things are
going to happen: Iran will
-- if we win the election,
Iran will come and sign a
deal with us very, very
rapidly, within the first,
I would say, week, but
let's give ourselves a
month -- because their
GDP went down 25 percent,
which is, like, an unheard
of number, and they'd like
to be able to get back
to having a successful
country again.
So I think that'll happen.
And I think, very
importantly, the
Palestinians will get
back into the fold.
And when they see all of
these countries that,
frankly, have been
supporters of the
Palestinians -- very big
supporters and, certainly,
financial supporters.
As you know, we used to
pay the Palestinians $750
million a year, and I
ended that some time ago,
on the basis that they
didn't seem to want to
make peace.
And we'll think about it
once we have a deal, but
I've ended that
quite a while ago.
I'm frankly surprised they
haven't been to the table
earlier.
But this is the best way.
This is a way that's
going to be great.
This can really bring the
Middle East together.
And again, since February,
we haven't had a death in
Afghanistan, which is --
it's a record for many
years.
Not a death.
And we're getting along
very, very well with the
Taliban and very well
with Afghanistan and its
representatives.
And we'll see
how it all goes.
It's a negotiation.
But Secretary of State
Mike Pompeo will be
departing in a
little while.
So I think that's
very exciting news.
And a lot of people
thought that my natural
instinct is war; no,
my natural instinct is
actually peace.
When we were on the debate
stage, people used to say,
"Will it be one week or
two weeks before President
Trump gets into a war?"
But that's not -- I did
rebuild our military.
We have a military that --
two and a half trillion
dollars -- new jets and
rockets and tanks and
ships and a lot
of things we have.
We have the newest, best
military we've ever had.
So, hopefully, we
won't have to use it.
Our nuclear program has
been put into gear like
never before, and in
particular, hopefully, we
won't have to use that,
because that's a whole new
level of destruction.
And we never want to --
just have to pray to God
we never have to use that.
All right, please, Jon.
The Press: Yes, thank
you, Mr. President.
Why did you lie to
the American people?
And why should we trust
what you have to say now?
The President: Such a
terrible question and the
phraseology.
I didn't lie.
What I said is: We have
to be calm; we can't be
panicked.
I knew that the
tapes were there.
These were a series of
phone calls that we had --
mostly phone calls.
And Bob Woodward is
somebody that I respect,
just from hearing the name
for many, many years, not
knowing too much about his
work, not caring about his
work.
But I thought it would be
interesting to talk to him
for a period of,
you know, calls.
So we did that.
I don't know if
it's good or bad.
I don't even know if the
book is good or bad, but,
certainly, if he thought
that was a bad statement,
he would have reported it
because he thinks that --
you know, you don't want
to have anybody that is
going to suffer medically
because of some fact.
And he didn't report it
because he didn't think it
was bad.
Nobody thought it was bad.
The Press: But when you
told him that this -- The
President: Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
And your question -- the
way you phrased that is
such a disgrace.
It's a disgrace to ABC
Television Network.
It's a disgrace
to your employer.
And that's the answer.
Are you ready?
Because I -- The Press:
Are you saying you didn't
lie?
The President: I love --
The Press: I mean, you --
you told him that you knew
that -- The President: Of
course I didn't.
Of course I didn't.
The Press: -- it was
"deadlier than the flu."
The President: No, no.
No, no.
The Press: And then you
went out and told the
American public that this
was "just like the flu."
The President: Let me tell
you something: We've had
flu years -- The Press: I
mean, you told Woodward
one thing and you told
everybody else something
else.
The President: No.
And five times, right?
Five times.
You ever hear the
expression, "five times"?
We've had flu years where
we lost 100,000 people.
The flu is a very serious
problem for this country
also.
And we've been losing them
-- Scott, what kind of a
number have we lost over
the years with flus?
Into the hundreds
of thousands?
DR. ATLAS: Well, I mean,
the last five years have
been something like 35
to 80 thousand per year,
every year, even with
antiviral drugs and even
with vaccines.
The President: Flu is a
very serious problem also.
The Press: But you told
Bob Woodward this is --
this is worse than the
most deadly -- "deadlier
than the most strenuous
flu." The President: Okay.
The Press: And then you
went out and said, "It's
just like the flu." The
President: What I went out
and said is very simple --
The Press: And that it was
"going to go away." The
President: Listen, what I
went out and said is very
simple: I want to show a
level of confidence and I
want a show strength as a
leader, and I want to show
that our country is going
to be fine, one
way or the other.
Whether we lose one person
-- we shouldn't lose any,
because this shouldn't
have happened.
This is China's fault.
This is nobody's
fault but China.
China should not have
allowed it to happen.
Whether you have a -- one
person, 180,000 people, or
two and a half or 3
million people, which it
could have been very
seriously if we didn't
make the moves.
And when you look at the
opposition, where they
said, "Oh, why did
he put the ban on?"
-- Doctor Fauci said
we saved hundreds of
thousands of lives by
putting the ban on China
and then, ultimately,
putting the ban on Europe.
There was no lie here.
What we're doing is we're
leading, and we're leading
in a proper way.
And if, frankly, somebody
else was leading it, they
wouldn't have closed it.
If you look at Nancy
Pelosi, you look at Cuomo,
you look at de Blasio,
you look at Biden, months
later, they said there's
no problem -- they're
talking about me.
Months later.
And before any statement
was made -- you have to
remember, I put
the ban on China.
So, obviously, outwardly I
said it's a very serious
problem.
And it's always a
serious problem.
That doesn't mean I'm
going to jump up and down
in the air and start
saying, "People are going
to die!
People are going to die!"
No.
I'm not going to do that.
We're going to
get through this.
And we're, right now, I
hope -- really think we're
going to -- we're
rounding the final turn.
And a lot of good things
are happening with
vaccines and with
therapeutics, but there's
no lying.
And the way you ask
that question is very
disgraceful.
The Press: But should
people trust you now?
The President: Phil,
go ahead, please.
Go ahead.
Yeah, I do think so.
And I think we
did a great job.
I think we did
a great job.
And the people that did
such -- our generals, our
admirals, Mike Pence, all
of the people that have
worked so hard -- and now
Dr. Atlas -- all of the --
Dr. Fauci, Dr. Birx --
they should be respected
for the job they've done.
The Press: So you won't
downplay it again?
The President: And you
haven't -- The Press: You
won't downplay it again?
Because you said
you downplayed it.
That's what you
told (inaudible).
The President: All I'm
doing is -- no, I don't
want to jump up and down
and start screaming
"Death!
Death!"
because that's not
what it's about.
We have to lead a country.
We're leading a great
country, and we're doing a
great job.
And the people that have
done such a good job
should be given the kind
of credit that they
deserve.
We possibly have done the
best jobs when you start
looking at what we're
doing with the vaccines
and therapeutics
and ventilators.
We had no
ventilators, Jon.
We make thousands of
ventilators now a month,
and we're supplying them
to the whole world.
The job we've done
is the best job.
And don't give me any
credit; give the people
that have done
this the credit.
They've done a great job.
Yeah, Phil.
Go ahead.
The Press: Yeah, Mr.
President, you talked
about the need to stay
calm and not jump up and
down and scare people.
A lot of other world
leaders were calm.
German Chancellor Angela
Merkel was very calm and
she presented information
to the German people so
that they could stay
safe and protect their
families.
So why as you, as
President of the United
States, did you not level
with the American people,
did you not share the
information that you knew
at the time, in real time?
The President: Well, I
don't know what -- what
Angela is doing.
But if you look at the
European Union right now,
they're having breakouts
like you've never seen
before.
And, frankly, their
numbers are at a level
that are much worse
than the numbers here.
The Press: Many people
have died in the United
States.
The President: We are --
we have done -- we have --
Phil, we have done much,
much better than the
European Union.
I just read you numbers
that are not good on their
behalf; that are
very good at ours.
And we have rounded the
final turn, and we have --
we're going to have
vaccines very soon -- The
Press: (Inaudible.) The
President: -- maybe much
sooner than you think.
Listen, maybe much
But we have done a
phenomenal job, and the
people that have done
this job -- including the
American public that's had
to put up with a lot with
the lockdowns and all of
the things that they had
to do -- they have
to be given credit.
They have to be
given credit.
The Press: But you knew
this was a deadly virus.
The President:
Please, go ahead.
The Press: You knew
it was airborne.
You knew -- on February
7th, you told Bob Woodward
how it transferred from
person to person in the
air, how deadly it was.
Why did you not come to
the podium and (inaudible)
people what you -- The
President: Well, let me
ask you this: If Bob
Woodward thought that was
bad -- because this is
stuff that everyone knew.
There's a report that I
have here someplace where
China said it was
airborne earlier than the
statements I made.
People knew it
was airborne.
This was nothing -- this
was no big -- when I say
it was airborne, everybody
knew it was airborne.
This was no big thing.
The Press: (Inaudible)
put that out in February?
The President: But
read the reports.
China came out with a
statement that it was an
airborne disease.
I heard it was an
I assumed it early on.
The fact is, there
has to be a calmness.
You don't want me jumping
up and down, screaming,
"There's going to
be great death.
There is going to..." and
really causing some very,
very serious problems
for the country.
If Bob Woodward thought
what I said was bad, then
he should've immediately,
right after I said it,
gone out to the
authorities so they can
prepare and let them know.
The Press: But Bob
Woodward is not -- The
President: But he didn't
think it was bad, and he
said he didn't
think it was bad.
He actually said he
didn't think it was bad.
The Press: Bob Woodward
is not the President.
The President: The only
one that said it was bad
or thinks it was bad were
the fake news media,
because they take it and
they try and put it a
certain way.
If Bob Woodward thought it
was bad, then he should've
immediately gone out
publicly, not wait four
months.
You know, he's had that
statement for four months,
maybe five months.
He's had it for
a long time.
It was a series of taped
interviews, mostly by
telephone -- quick
ones, not long ones.
Quick ones.
And it was -- I did it out
of curiosity, because I do
have respect, and I want
to see -- I wonder whether
or not somebody like
that can write good.
I don't think he can, but
let's see what happens.
Yeah, please.
The Press: Thank
you, Mr. President.
We're just about 50 days
out from the election and
we haven't seen a
lot out of the Durham
investigation yet.
The President: Yeah.
The Press: Where is that?
And do you -- do you
have confidence in the
investigation?
The President: Well, I
can't tell you that yet.
I have to see.
I'm not involved in it.
I purposely stayed
uninvolved.
I'm, I guess, considered
the chief law enforcement
officer of the country.
I could be involved
if I wanted to.
I thought it would be
better if I wasn't.
I think it's better if our
great Attorney General
handle it.
He has Durham, who is a
very, very respected man,
and we're going
to see what it is.
I can't tell you that.
The Press: But do you want
to see more indictments?
The President: I can tell
you this -- I can tell you
this: They -- they lied,
they cheated, they leaked,
they got caught.
They spied on my campaign.
Never in history has there
been anything like this.
And I guarantee if the
roles were reversed and I
was on the Democrat side,
people would have been in
jail at the very
highest level.
People would have been
in jail for two years
already.
Nothing like this
has ever happened.
And the term would be for
many, many years, because
it's treason and other
words can be used also.
The Press: So you think
there should be more
indictments as a part
of this investigation?
The President: Well, I
think -- just on what I
read in your wonderful
papers, I think -- and --
and see what, you know,
just looking at the media
-- not even what I know.
I think Comey is a
disgrace to our country.
I think Strzok -- who just
wrote a book, which is a
total fake --
is a disgrace.
I think Page -- Lisa Page,
his lover -- is a disgrace
to our country.
I think that when you look
at McCabe, where his wife
got $700,000 in campaign
contributions from Hillary
Clinton -- right?
And then Hillary Clinton
is under investigation,
and yet she paid the head
of the FBI -- one of the
top people, but actually
the head, because he took
over for -- for the other
guy, who fortunately I
fired.
I made a good
move when I fired.
That was a smart move --
because they were looking
to take down this
administration, duly
elected administration.
So I fired him.
That was a great move
when I fired him.
Because maybe, if I
didn't, I wouldn't be here
talking to you
as President.
But when McCabe's wife
gets $700,000 in campaign
contributions when she
was running for whatever
office she was running
from -- from Virginia --
and yet he's in charge
of the investigation of
Hillary Clinton.
Now, he says, "Well, I
wasn't really in charge."
Of course, he
was in charge.
He was totally in charge.
He knew exactly
what was going on.
These people got caught
in the -- probably the
biggest political scandal
in the history of our
country.
They got caught.
Now, what the Durham
report is going to say, I
can't tell you.
But if they say half as
much as I already know --
just from seeing it.
You know, you have people
-- I watch some of the
shows.
I watch Liz McDonald;
she's fantastic.
I watched Fox Business.
I watched Lou Dobbs last
night, Sean Hannity last
night, Tucker
last night, Laura.
I watched "Fox and
Friends" in the morning.
You watch these shows; you
don't have to go too far
into the details.
They cover things that are
-- it's really an amazing
thing.
They got caught in the
biggest political scandal
in the history
of our country.
They were spying on their
opponent's campaign.
Not only spying; they were
making up fake dossiers.
You have the
dirty dossier.
They were making up the
dirty -- and it was all
made up.
It was all fiction.
It turned out
to be fiction.
And then they were using
that in the FISA courts --
this revered court.
Well, it's not so revered
anymore because when you
look at what they did and
how they played it -- and
they hurt a lot of people.
General Flynn is still
being hurt, and he's being
hurt very badly.
He's a wonderful person.
I spoke to General Milley
about General Flynn two
weeks ago.
I said, "What do you
think of General Flynn?"
He said, "He's a
great soldier, sir.
He's a wonderful,
wonderful human being."
He's been destroyed.
No, I think that this --
without knowing anything
about what Durham is going
to release -- the "Durham
report," we'll call it,
or maybe it's going to be
more than a report.
Maybe it's going to be
much more than a report, I
don't know.
Maybe it's a report or
maybe it's much more than
that.
But when I look at the --
the things that everybody
in this room knows, just
from reading about it from
yourselves back and forth,
I think it's a disgrace to
our country.
And I think if people
don't pay a very, very
substantial price,
it'll happen again.
And this should never ever
happen to another President.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, everybody.